README.md, before:

# GAQ(Go AST Query)

GAQ is the library to query `ast.Node` children like JavaScript `querySelector` or `querySelectorAll`.

## Table of Contents

<!-- TOC -->

- [GAQ(Go AST Query)](#gaqgo-ast-query)
    - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Install](#install)
    - [Library](#library)
        - [Usage](#usage)
    - [CLI](#cli)
        - [Usage](#usage-1)
- [Query Specfication](#query-specfication)
    - [Supported Combinators](#supported-combinators)
    - [Supported Attribute Syntax](#supported-attribute-syntax)
    - [Supported Pseudo Class](#supported-pseudo-class)

<!-- /TOC -->

# Install

## Library

```sh
go get github.com/tamayika/gaq/pkg/gaq
```

### Usage

Please refer [pkg/gaq/example_test.go](pkg/gaq/example_test.go) as 

## CLI

```sh
go get github.com/tamayika/gaq
```

### Usage

You can see help with `--help` flag.

```
$ gaq --help
gaq is the cli tool to query ast node.
Typical usage is

  cat <go file path> | gaq <Query>

Please see details at https://github.com/tamayika/gaq

Usage:
  gaq <Query> [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for gaq
```

For example, `File > Ident` query filters package name in `main.go`

```
$ cat main.go | gaq "File > Ident"
main
```

# Query Specfication

Heavily inspired by CSS Selector.

```
Query:
    Selector [',' Selector]

Selector:
    SimpleSelector [Combinator SimpleSelector]

SimpleSelector:
    NodeName [Attribute] [Pseudo]

Attribute:
    '[' Field [ AttributeOperator Value ] ']'

Pseudo:
    ':' Name [ '(' Expression ')' ]
```

Full used example
```
    File > Ident[Name*='test']:first-child, File > Ident[Name*='test']:last-child
```

Here, NodeName is one of node type of [ast](https://golang.org/pkg/go/ast/).
For example, if you want to find `*ast.StructType`, NodeName is `StructType`.

If you don't know NodeName, VSCode extension [vscode-go-ast-explorer](https://github.com/tamayika/vscode-go-ast-explorer) will help you to find it out.

## Supported Combinators

|  Combinator  |            Name             |                                                 Meaning                                                 |
| ------------ | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| +            | Adjacent sibling combinator | The second node directly follows the first, and both share the same parent.                             |
| ~            | General sibling combinator  | The second node follows the first (though not necessarily immediately), and both share the same parent. |
| >            | Child combinator            | Selects nodes that are direct children of the first node.                                               |
| (whitespace) | Descendant combinator       | Selects nodes that are descendants of the first node.                                                   |

## Supported Attribute Syntax

|    Syntax     |                                                                 Meaning                                                                 |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `[f]`         | Represents Node with an field name of f.                                                                                                |
| `[f=value]`   | Represents Node with an field name of f whose value is exactly value.                                                                   |
| `[f~=value]`  | Represents Node with an field name of f whose value is a whitespace-separated list of words, one of which is exactly value.             |
| `[f\|=value]` | Represents Node with an field name of f whose value can be exactly value or can begin with value immediately followed by a hyphen, `-`. |
| `[f^=value]`  | Represents Node with an field name of f whose value is prefixed (preceded) by value.                                                    |
| `[f$=value]`  | Represents Node with an field name of f whose value is suffixed (followed) by value.                                                    |
| `[f*=value]`  | Represents Node with an field name of f whose value contains at least one occurrence of value within the string.                        |

## Supported Pseudo Class

|     Syntax     |                          Meaning                          |
| -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `:first-child` | Represents the first node among a group of sibling nodes. |
| `:last-child`  | Represents the last node among a group of sibling nodes.  |

Commit message:

Add :first-of-type and :last-of-type

README.md, after:

# GAQ(Go AST Query)

GAQ is the library to query `ast.Node` children like JavaScript `querySelector` or `querySelectorAll`.

## Table of Contents

<!-- TOC -->

- [GAQ(Go AST Query)](#gaqgo-ast-query)
    - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Install](#install)
    - [Library](#library)
        - [Usage](#usage)
    - [CLI](#cli)
        - [Usage](#usage-1)
- [Query Specfication](#query-specfication)
    - [Supported Combinators](#supported-combinators)
    - [Supported Attribute Syntax](#supported-attribute-syntax)
    - [Supported Pseudo Class](#supported-pseudo-class)

<!-- /TOC -->

# Install

## Library

```sh
go get github.com/tamayika/gaq/pkg/gaq
```

### Usage

Please refer [pkg/gaq/example_test.go](pkg/gaq/example_test.go) as 

## CLI

```sh
go get github.com/tamayika/gaq
```

### Usage

You can see help with `--help` flag.

```
$ gaq --help
gaq is the cli tool to query ast node.
Typical usage is

  cat <go file path> | gaq <Query>

Please see details at https://github.com/tamayika/gaq

Usage:
  gaq <Query> [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for gaq
```

For example, `File > Ident` query filters package name in `main.go`

```
$ cat main.go | gaq "File > Ident"
main
```

# Query Specfication

Heavily inspired by CSS Selector.

```
Query:
    Selector [',' Selector]

Selector:
    SimpleSelector [Combinator SimpleSelector]

SimpleSelector:
    NodeName [Attribute] [Pseudo]

Attribute:
    '[' Field [ AttributeOperator Value ] ']'

Pseudo:
    ':' Name [ '(' Expression ')' ]
```

Full used example
```
    File > Ident[Name*='test']:first-child, File > Ident[Name*='test']:last-child
```

Here, NodeName is one of node type of [ast](https://golang.org/pkg/go/ast/).
For example, if you want to find `*ast.StructType`, NodeName is `StructType`.

If you don't know NodeName, VSCode extension [vscode-go-ast-explorer](https://github.com/tamayika/vscode-go-ast-explorer) will help you to find it out.

## Supported Combinators

|  Combinator  |            Name             |                                                 Meaning                                                 |
| ------------ | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| +            | Adjacent sibling combinator | The second node directly follows the first, and both share the same parent.                             |
| ~            | General sibling combinator  | The second node follows the first (though not necessarily immediately), and both share the same parent. |
| >            | Child combinator            | Selects nodes that are direct children of the first node.                                               |
| (whitespace) | Descendant combinator       | Selects nodes that are descendants of the first node.                                                   |

## Supported Attribute Syntax

|    Syntax     |                                                                 Meaning                                                                 |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `[f]`         | Represents Node with an field name of f.                                                                                                |
| `[f=value]`   | Represents Node with an field name of f whose value is exactly value.                                                                   |
| `[f~=value]`  | Represents Node with an field name of f whose value is a whitespace-separated list of words, one of which is exactly value.             |
| `[f\|=value]` | Represents Node with an field name of f whose value can be exactly value or can begin with value immediately followed by a hyphen, `-`. |
| `[f^=value]`  | Represents Node with an field name of f whose value is prefixed (preceded) by value.                                                    |
| `[f$=value]`  | Represents Node with an field name of f whose value is suffixed (followed) by value.                                                    |
| `[f*=value]`  | Represents Node with an field name of f whose value contains at least one occurrence of value within the string.                        |

## Supported Pseudo Class

|      Syntax      |                                Meaning                                |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `:first-child`   | Represents the first node among a group of sibling nodes.             |
| `:first-of-type` | Represents the first node of its type among a group of sibling nodes. |
| `:last-child`    | Represents the last node among a group of sibling nodes.              |
| `:last-of-type`  | represents the last node of its type among a group of sibling nodes.  |
